Experience working in the lab

 I arrived at the campus on 16th June. The weather there is really hot, much hotter than that in Wenzhou. The temperature in Wenzhou was always below 30 degrees but in Haining it has risen to 36 degrees at noon. The city group is like a big desert, absorbing light and heat from the sun. At noon the ground is so hot that you could feel something burning under your feet.
  
  That’s the start of summer. Students were staying in their dormitory, with their air conditioner pumping cold wind crazily. Outside the dorm, the hot wave was rambling throughout every corner of the city, drying flowers in the garden and trees in the park. Flowers that blossomed greatly a month ago now were shrinking. Birds were hiding in the bush, only coming out in the early morning and late evening. 
 
 This is the season for the summer holiday, but I ended up in the lab.
 
 Not because I thought joining the lab could bring me any interest, I thought it was a precious chance and also a challenge for me. I’d always wanted to do experiments in the lab and it’s very cool. In primary school, middle school, and high school, we were always asked to study, study and study, sitting in the narrow classroom with tons of homework to do. At that time, I was looking forward to working in the lab someday, always being full and creative, discovering new things, and probing new areas. 
  
  If I spend a part of the summer holiday in the lab, it would be great, I thought. So one day in the early May, when I was doing compost at the compost site when I saw the graduate students watering their crops, I immediately asked them whether I could go and meet their professor because I was keen on plants, so wanted to go to the lab in the summer holiday. Surprisingly, they were so good people. Not only did they tell me their professor’s name, but they gave me a ride to their laboratory building.
  
  “You are so lucky. Professor Shou only comes to Haining campus once a week, and she’s there today!”
 
 So eventually I met with the professor and was also permitted to work in the lab during the summer holiday.
  
  I arrived at the lab on 17th June. Outside the lab, there were desks for graduate students to sit and it was also their working space. On workdays, they were very busy, attending meetings and searching for papers to read, and they should spend a bunch of time working in the lab too. In the lab, there were rows of lab benches, upon which there were centrifuge tubes, flasks, chemical reagents, and kinds of appliances that I did not know, in the closet. In the drawer under the bench, there were papers, tweezers, scissors, and pens. Another little room was the culturing room where tissue-cultured plants were growing there. When I entered the room, I was amazed by the plants growing on the plate.
  
  In the first few days, it seems these undergraduate students did not credit my ability, and they were also not sure whether I would get everything in a mess, so the work I did was very limited. All things to do for me were solely changing the water in the growing box, watching how they did manipulations, and inserting seeds into the growing box. The first time I handle tweezers I could not even hold them well, and I was also extremely slow. However, as I manipulate more my hand gradually conquered the tweezer and the speed rose up so I could do more work in a limited time. 
 
 Days after, graduate students let me do some more difficult manipulations. I remember that one day my work was to extract DNA from rice crops. We cut some rice leaves, put them into centrifuge tubes, centrifuged them for a period of time, added lots of agents into the tubes, and so on. We started in the afternoon and finished at 11 o’clock at night. When we closed the lab door, I felt tired but happy. It seemed that the time was frozen when we were doing experiments. But who noticed time passed so fast!
 
 I loved the smell of the experiment gloves, and also the smell of the rice seeds released when they are coming up. When walking through the forest of tubes and bottles, I couldn’t stop but think that everything is so amazing!
 
 During the experimentation, however, I also noticed something that I have always been thinking wrong. Working in the lab is not always creative and interesting. There are lots of monotonous manipulations that you have to do daily, such as growing seeds, and making culture mediums. Most of the manipulations should be done carefully and attentively, following protocols. Experimenters are like workers in the factory, doing rigid steps that have been planned by others. So strictly this kind of working in the lab is merely “working”, but not creating and discovering. People in the lab are also easily fallen into daily routines, be stuck in the daily ruts, and follow the protocol of life. The true spirit of being a scientist, I think, is always keeping a curious mind, being able to discover problems, and being equipped with the ability to solve them. A true scientist is always lively, keen, and full of go.
 
 Now, I’m sitting on my sit in the lab office, typing in words and my feelings. There are people sitting near me, using their computers too. The lab really gave me a chance to look into the science workers’ life, scrutinizing what’s going on in their daily life. It also gave me a chance to work in the lab, learning techniques and doing manipulations. These are experiences that I did not ever have. There are also lots of new things and knowledge to learn, such as basic principles and science under each manipulation and the meaning to do it. Except for these, the most important thing I obtained from the lab is that I fixed my deviated impression of the lab and recognized that merely working in the lab does not mean discovering and doing research. It also helps me to redefine what is scientist, what is true science, and what we should do in scientific research.

